

MAGNETIC 
        - Switches on following of a magnetic field vector B[] for
          each SPH particle. This only follows the induction equation
          (in the form of equation 8.10 in Monaghan's 1992 review)

MAGFORCE
        - When this is set, the code includes magnetic forces in the
          equations of motion of gas particles. Otherwise the magnetic
          field is only followed passively, i.e. it would not play a
          dynamical role.

CORRECTBFRC
        - Modifies the magnetic pressure forces in analogy with the
          hydrodynamic forces. This appears to improve the results
          quite a bit, judging from magnetic shock tubes. Can be
          recommended. 

DIVBFORCE
        - If this is set, the "divB-component" of the magnetic force
          is substracted, i.e. effectively the Lorentz force is used
          and not the one based on the magentic stress tensor (which
          involves the assumption divB=0). If the magnetic forces
          become very large, this formulation might behave somewhat
          better, particularly when large divB!=0 errors develop.

DBOUTPUT
        - This option includes the rate of change of the magnetic
          field (dB/dt) in the output file.

TRACEDIVB
        - This makes each particle estimate the local divB (purely
          passive option), in order to monitor a potentially growing
          divB component. The divB values are also stored in a
          separate field in the snapshots produced by gadget. If
          XXLINFO is set, one gets some information in each timestep
          about the maximum divB.

XXLINFO 
        - Generates additional Log-File information in the file
          xxl.txt
          There, one gets a mean B-field strength, and the maximum
          div(B) value for each timestep.

BINISET
        - If this option is set, one can specify with the parameters
          BiniX, BiniY, and BiniZ an initial homogenous magnetic
          field.
          Otherwise, the initial B-field (for restart from initial
          conditions) must be set as a vector field in a block that
          comes directly after the gas temperatures. 

BSMOOTH 
        - If this is set, the code computes for each particle a
          locally smoothed magnetic field Bsmooth[] (kernel-averaged
          over the local smoothing region). Depending on the setting
          of the parameters BSmoothInt and BsmoothFrac, the actual
          magnetic field evolved by the code can be "cleaned"
          from time to time, i.e. replaced with a smoother
          version. This can be viewed as a rough method to account for
          magnetic reconnection when the field becomes too
          tangled. Such a cleaning step is only done when a "full"
          timestep is carried out, i.e. when all particles are
          synchronized. The integer parameter BSmoothInt regulates on
          which of these full steps a cleaning is done. A value of 1
          does it every full step, a value of 4, for example, only
          every fourth, while 0 never does it. The cleaning itself
          means replacing the current magnetic field with a weighted
          average of the current value and the smoothed version of it.
          If the weight (BSmoothFrac) is equal to 0.5, you have an
          arithemtic average, for 1.0 one has a replacement with the
          smoothed version, while 0.0 will not change anythings.

OUTPUTBSMOOTH
        - Can be set to write the smoothed magnetic field into the
          snapshot fields. Works only together with BSMOOTH.




CORRECTDB
        - Muliply dB/dt with 1/(1+) factor. Experimental, and
          not recommended at this point.

ARTBPRES
        - Generates an artifical magnetic pressure. Experimental,
          don't set. 

BRIOWU
        - Only used for testing purposes. If not set, the code assumes
          that the magnetic field is given in cgs-units ("Gauss"),
          both internally and in all output/input files.




Parameters in parameterfile:

  BiniX    (only if compiled with BINISET)
  BiniY
  BiniZ

  BSmoothInt   (only if compiled with BSMOOTH)
  BSmoothFrac

